Israel's prime minister has said what he
called the intense phase of fighting
Hamas in Gaza is nearly over allowing
troops to be freed up to be deployed to
Israel's northern border with Lebanon
where fightings escalated with the
Hezbollah armed group in his first
Israeli media interview since the start
of the war in October Benjamin Netanyahu
said he expected the ground operation in
the southern Gaza City of Rafa to be
completed soon but he said the war
wouldn't finish until the islamist group
no longer control RS the Gaza Strip
here's some of what he had to
say if there is an agreement it will be
an agreement according to our terms and
our terms are not to end the war to
leave Gaza and leave Hamas as it is I
refuse to leave Hamas as it is we need
to
eliminated well this comes as Israel's
defense minister yav Galant is in
Washington where he's holding talks with
us officials about the conflict and
about President Biden's ceasefire deal
let's go to our Middle East analyst now
Bastian aser who joins us from Jerusalem
Sebastian good evening to you there what
does yoav Galant want to get out of his
trip to the
US well what he wants to get out of I
assume is support as much as possible
from Washington for wherever Israel
takes this next both in terms of what's
happening in Gaza but perhaps even more
importantly perhaps because this looks
like this is the next stage perhaps of
what could be happening in the region
what uh is Israel might do in terms of
hasbullah on its northern border there
has
been quite a lot of tension between the
Biden Administration it's fair to State
and specifically the Israeli Prime
Minister Mr Netanyahu in recent weeks
and I think that you Gallant will be
trying to smooth that over but he will
also be trying to put the Israeli case
forward on these issues now from a
perspective of Washington I think there
will be very much an effort by the
senior officials that he's going to be
meeting to try and uh give the sense
that to take what is happening on the
northern border with Hezbollah into an
allout conflict is a danger a risk that
all sides have been warning about for
months and months and that it's
something that Israel could actually
have very negative consequences from
Lebanon undoubtedly will the rest of the
region and potentially would bring the
US actively into the Battle Zone so I
think these will be very um intense deep
talks whether the two sides will
actually come to any agreement on where
things go next I think is quite a big
question because there hasn't been uh
recently but that is very much to do
with M Mr Netanyahu and his stance and I
think the Biden Administration has
undeniably become very frustrated that
all the suggestions all the warnings
that it has been making to Mr Netanyahu
don't seem to have been heeded Sebastian
as you were talking there we saw
pictures of yav Galant arriving in DC I
think we have a live shot now as
protesters have gathered outside the
venue in Washington where Mr Galant and
Mr blinken are meeting Sebastian while
we still have you let's talk more about
this warning if you like from Mr
Netanyahu that the conflict in Israel's
North with Lebanon could escalate how
much of a concern is this not just in
the immediate vicinity but in the wider
region massively I mean Anthony blinken
the man who's about to meet you AB
Gallant has made I think at least eight
trips to the Middle East since October
the 7th and a big part of those trips
have been to go to all the regional
capitals the Arab capitals as well as to
Israel um to try to get as much of a
consensus as possible and as much of a
kind of driving force in the region as
possible to avoid this ES ating beyond
what is already of course a very very
difficult dangerous um and and negative
situation uh in Gaza these are the worst
possible fears that would be realized if
there was a real upscaling of the
skirmishes that have been undeniably
intensifying across the border between
hasbullah and Israeli forces
particularly in the past 2 or 3 weeks
this would take both Israel and Lebanon
and the Reg region into a whole new
dimension uh Lebanon as there have been
warnings from Israel from a military
from its uh from its government could
face the same kind of Destruction as
Gaza has faced that has been said
specifically by leaders in Israel but
also Israel could suffer much worse I
mean obviously October 7th the massacre
was a terrible terrible moment for
Israel but what hasbullah is capable of
goes far beyond what Hamas has been
capable of with its Rockets Hezbollah is
believed to have potentially up to
200,000 rockets in its Arsenal some of
those are Precision guided so they could
particularly Target sensitive areas in
Israel but I think more
significantly there is a potential at
the moment I think this is a huge if
that this would ever happen there is a
potential for hasb to launch barrages of
up to 3,000 to 4,000 Rockets into Israel
across Israel
for weeks at a time if this moved into a
dimension of allout conflict that would
have huge consequences for the people of
Israel and I think there's a great sense
of apprehension not just in Lebanon over
what might happen but amongst the
Israeli people okay Sebastian N Middle
East analyst for us in Jerusalem
Sebastian thank
you well Israel says it's fighter jets
have struck a number of Hezbollah
Targets in southern Lebanon overnight
Israel says two m members of a local
security team in Northern Israel had
been injured one seriously by a
Hezbollah missile attack and as we
mentioned Israel's prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu says troops in Gaza
may be redeployed to the border with
Lebanon Israel and Hezbollah both say
they are prepared for a wider conflict
as this goes on Lebanese authorities
have denied claims by the British
newspaper The Daily Telegraph that
Hezbollah has been storing Iranian
weapons in the only civilian airport in
the country Beirut International Airport
in response they organized a tour for
journalists and diplomats to the airport
to see for themselves BBC arabic's
Beirut correspondent Karen torb was
among
them this is part of a tour of bayout
International Airport it was organized
by authorities to refute reports about
hisbah storing Iranian weapons
here the claim was made by The Daily
Telegraph citing anonymous
whistleblowers who allegedly said that
the Shia islamist group is keeping arms
and missiles at the
airport we think it's just a
psychological and media War you must
remember the talk about weapons of mass
destruction in irq it might be different
but it's part of the psychological
warfare the article is ridiculous and
unprofessional Beirut Airport is the
only civilian airport in the country in
200 during the war between Hezbollah and
Israel it was hit flights in and out of
the country were halted there are fears
today that this could happen
again what could be different this time
is that hasbalah has also threatened to
retaliate in kind in case Israel strikes
Lebanese strategic positions and it has
released a video it said was filmed by
one of its drones showing possible
Targets in Israel
as threats and counter threats intensify
the front in southern Lebanon Northern
Israel Witnesses constant escalation am
it concerns that this could become the
main front in the war Karen torb BBC
News beut